---
title: Release Readiness Analytics
index: 1000
---

## Readiness Checklist

Below is a sample checklist for Release Readiness Review and Pre-Delivery
Audit. It is useful both for Project Managers and Software Quality Analysts.

Is delivery going against approved Contract/Statement of work/work order? If
not, is the mail for approval from senior management available for the
delivery?

Has the requirements document / FSD validated and approved by client?

Are all the requirements implemented as per approved requirement document or
specification document or as agreed with the client? If not, is it documented
in the release notes / delivery note etc and approval taken from customer /
delivery head?

Are all Non-technical / non-functional requirements satisfied / completed?

Is the build verification done before each Testing?

Are all test cases updated to ensure complete test coverage?

Are all cycles of testing completed and defects closed ? If any defect is open,
is it documented in the release notes / delivery note etc and approval taken
from customer / delivery head.

Are all review defects closed?

Is the test Coverage Goal met as mentioned in test plan?

Is the traceability from requirements to source code to test cases to test
results documented and available for review?

Is the goal for System testing / functional testing or any other type of
testing is met?

Are all the test cases for acceptance testing identified and documented?

Are all audits done for the all items as identified in the software quality
assurance plan?

Are the findings of FCA / PCA / other audits closed (if any) ?

Has the test cases executed on target environment (or similar of target
environment) ?

Is acceptance criteria for system validation available?

Does end product / application meets the acceptance criteria during system
testing ?

Is the code modification history updated and code files are labled properly in
the configuration tool?

Are all the work products, deliverables and code consistent?

Are the CIs of the entire release package identified?

Is each CI in the release package CI tested / reviewed / approved?

Are all findings of testing / review of CIs closed?

Is the FTP credentials or CD key etc documented? Are these communicated to
client / customer?

Is release media and its access verified before sending the information to
client?

Are the following documents / deliverables / work products ready: FSD, ADS,
DDS, Test Plan, Test Case, Release Note, Installable Product, Source Code, Test
Programs, Drivers, Read me File, License File, Known Problems List,
Installation Procedure, Install Scripts, User Manual, Programmerâ€™s Manual,
Administrator Manual, Test Reports, Training Material or any other deliverable
required by client?

Is the delivery made from the static folder of VSS?

Apart from above points, the status of below points can also be checked:

Baselining of deliverables in configuration management tool

End of project backup and restoration of the backup

Readiness of maintenance / support plan

Is the problem reporting procedure documented and communicated to client?

Are the contact persons documented and communicated to client??

Is the post release defect reporting template ready?

Whether request has been made to IT for making the project repository under VSS
read only?


